[James Northridge] ...we brought in four interns
last year, student interns that worked with
us for ten weeks in the summer and
we took in twenty modules across the
university and we had the
students review those modules
for accessibility and it was a
really, really good success.
We saw that the [accessibility] scores
jumped quite high in terms of
those twenty modules and
also we were building capacity
within those twenty staff.
So, the instructors or staff that
ran those modules or courses
were then really brought into
that and we kind of brought them on the journey.
They had to meet the students every
two weeks and we then did a showcase
back to the staff in terms of
what the students learned.
[Sharon Austin] For the faculty,
we ask them to
show students about the
alternative formats because many
students use it to, for example,
change a PowerPoint to a PDF so
that they can do their learning
on a mobile basis, and faculty
are unaware of the convenience
of this. So we educate the
faculty about the multimodal
opportunities that alternative
formats offer.
[Dr Tharindu Liyanagunawardena] I think
first of all, we have to raise awareness of
digital accessibility and the
techniques that staff can use in
creating accessible content. Our
colleagues could be the world
experts in their field of study,
but they may not be aware of
digital accessibility, so
awareness is so important.
It is also important to show
that digital accessibility is
not an abstract concept. It's
not something "out there".
It's very tangible and essential for
users. So, I generally use
anecdotes and user stories.
[Dr Esin Caglayan] ...but just as
you said, I mean
Instructors are critical
at this point, I believe.
That's why we share these
materials with the instructors
and ask them to disseminate them
through their course sites on the
LMS and also mention them,
highlight them, during their courses.
You know, it has a
better influence on the
students, and teachers / instructors.
They have direct communication.
So, what the
instructor says is more
important than a general
announcement or a flyer, I believe.
[Sarah Whittaker] ...all
faculty have to take for
Blackboard for example.
And within that we showcase
not just the accessibility
features but "the why" you want to
do this. So why you want to add
an alternative description to
the image. So, as we're teaching
them to add an image into
Blackboard, we teach them about
alternative descriptions and why
you should add them. We also
teach them things like simple
Microsoft Word training.
We tell them the importance of
having having headers and sub
headers and not just trying to
create those on your own.
[Terry Green] OK, so in Ontario there's
this thing called the AODA Act,
the Accessibility for Ontarians
with Disabilities Act and its
goal is to make accessibility widespread
and commonplace.
And you must be in compliance.
It has some
principles, the principles of
dignity, independence,
integration and equal opportunity.
So, if someone said to me...
"but I don't have any disabled students
and I don't have any time for this",
I can say, "Tough luck, pal. It's
the law and you have to do it".
So, it's kind of a "no brainer"
for us here in Ontario.